---
slug: private-team-snapshots
date: 2020-07-31
author: victor
layout: blog
title: "Support your team using Tilt with private team snapshots"
subtitle: "Remotely and securely debug Kubernetes set up and development problems with Tilt Cloud private team Snapshots"
image: "/assets/images/private-team-snapshots/annie-spratt-FPSOigqOMxE-unsplash.jpg"
image_caption: "Photo by <a href='https://unsplash.com/@anniespratt?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText'>Annie Spratt</a> on <a href='https://unsplash.com/?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText'>Unsplash</a>"
tags:
  - tilt
keywords:
  - tilt
  - tiltfile
  - team
  - snapshots
  - private
---

We're excited to announce Tilt Cloud private team snapshots, a feature that allows you as the DevEx engineer to securely receive complete and fully interactive Tilt states from team members using Tilt. A snapshot is a frozen moment-in-time representation of a team member's Tilt state from _their_ local machine running Tilt, that looks and works exactly like Tilt. See [this live example snapshot](https://cloud.tilt.dev/snapshot/Afygp-8LJ4vRmVdGtHU=) embedded in the following iframe. It's a real public snapshot. (See below for public snapshots vs private team snapshots.)

<iframe src="https://cloud.tilt.dev/snapshot/Afygp-8LJ4vRmVdGtHU=" width="100%" height="800px"></iframe>

## Toward our Tilt Cloud vision

Private team snapshots are part of the Support pillar of our [Tilt Cloud vision](https://blog.tilt.dev/2020/04/21/tilt-cloud.html). As the DevEx engineer, you are responsible for managing the Tiltfile and Tilt workflows of your team. And so when a team member encounters a problem setting up Tilt, using Kubernetes, or otherwise runs into a development issue, it would be ideal to see their screen. Private team snapshots effectively allows you to do this securely, and even asynchronously. 

## Developer encounters a problem and sends you a snapshot

When a developer team member encounters a problem while using Tilt, they click `Create a snapshot` and follow the prompts to generate a private snapshot of their current Tilt state. The snapshot is instantly uploaded to Tilt Cloud and automatically associated with your [Tilt Cloud team](https://docs.tilt.dev/teams.html). The team member then sends you the URL to the snapshot (via Slack, for example), or even to other team members to help debug the issue. Only signed-in team members can view the private snapshot.

_Embed gif_

## Review multiple snapshots on your own time 

As the DevEx engineer, you receive the snapshot and can debug the problem immediately and synchronously over chat or a video call. Since snapshots are just data stored in Tilt Cloud representing Tilt states, you can alternatively review a snapshot at a later time, especially if your team prefers a more asynchronous workflow. On Tilt Cloud, you see a listing of all snapshots generated by all team members, showing who created them, and when. This allows you to support multiple team members, yet still stay organized. You can also delete snapshots too.

_Screenshot of Tilt Cloud team snapshots page_

## Get started with private team snapshots with a Tilt Cloud team

Private team snapshots is available to everyone today. Ensure your project is already [associated with a Tilt Cloud team](https://docs.tilt.dev/teams.html). (If you don't have a team yet, [create one](https://cloud.tilt.dev/team/new).) And developer team members will be able to start creating and sending you snapshots. See our [docs](https://docs.tilt.dev/snapshots.html) for additional detail.

## Future improvements

This is our first release of private team snaphots, and we're already considering and working on improving the experience with ideas like:

- A more integrated and seamless experience to create and share snapshots
- Bulk management of snapshots
- Auto-deletion of old/stale snapshots

See our [issue tracker](https://github.com/tilt-dev/tilt/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Tilt+Cloud%22) to participate in the conversation.

## Public snapshots

If your project is not associated with a Tilt Cloud team, you'll still be able to create snapshots, using the same flow as above. But they will be [public snapshots](https://docs.tilt.dev/snapshots.html#public-snapshots), accessible to anyone on the internet, provided they have a given snapshot's URL. They don't have to be signed into Tilt Cloud to access these public snapshots.