---
slug: "helm-improvements"
date: 2022-01-25
author: nick
layout: blog
title: "The More YAML You Have, The More You Should Consider Helm"
subtitle: "An announcement of improvements to Tilt <> Helm interop, and a discussion on the right time to use Helm."
description: "An announcement of improvements to Tilt <> Helm interop, and a discussion on the right time to use Helm."
image: "/assets/images/helm-improvements/elephant-seals.jpg"
image_caption: "The <a href='https://elephantseal.org/'>elephant seals of San Simeon</a> are a good demonstration of what it looks like when your YAML gets out of control."
tags:
  - helm
  - yaml
---

There are two major ways we see teams use Helm charts in dev environments.

- You want to use an off-the-shelf server. You found an existing chart for it on [Artifact Hub](https://artifacthub.io/)!

- You're iterating on a server that has so much YAML that you need Helm to get your arms around it.

We've made some big improvements to our Helm support recently with the [`helm_resource`
extension](https://github.com/tilt-dev/tilt-extensions/tree/master/helm_resource).

Let's dig into how you'd use it and why.

## Why Helm?

Helm is a packaging standard for Kubernetes apps.

In its simplest form, a Helm chart is simply a collection of Kubernetes objects
described in YAML, with templating support to adapt those objects to different
environments. Your objects might look slightly different in prod vs in dev.

But over the past few years, charts can do more and more at runtime, including:

- Installing different objects depending on which Kubernetes version you're using.

- Controlling the order that objects are installed in.

- Running checks at different stages of the install process.

That's made it the tool-of-choice for installing a package of servers.

## Installing off-the-shelf servers

Many off-the-shelf tools have Helm charts. The chart is an easy way to install a
collection of objects into your Kubernetes cluster. You don't have to worry
about what objects are in there or what order to install them in.

Here's an example that deploys the [Bitnami `mysql`
chart](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/bitnami/mysql):

```python
load('ext://helm_resource', 'helm_resource', 'helm_repo')
helm_repo('bitnami', 'https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami')
helm_resource('mysql', 'bitnami/mysql')
```

Visit [Artifact Hub](https://artifacthub.io/) to find Helm charts for
many off-the-shelf tools. They each list the repo URL and chart name to
use with `helm_resource`.

## Iterating on the Image

Many Helm charts let you inject your own image. That's why the `helm_resource`
extension lets you list a dependency on an image, then inject the image into the
chart automatically when it changes.

You need to add two arguments to your `helm_resource` declaration:

- An `image_deps` that lists the images you depend on.

- An `image_keys` that tells Tilt the names of the template keys for those images.

A widespread convention in the Helm ecosystem is to describe image with two
different keys: a `repository` key (e.g., `my-org/my-image-name` and a `tag` key
(e.g., `v2`). So `helm_resource` supports a special syntax for describing this
as a `(respository_key, tag_key)` tuple.

Here's an example from the `helm_resource` tests:

```python
load('ext://helm_resource', 'helm_resource')

docker_build(
  'helloworld-image',
  './src',
  dockerfile='./Dockerfile')

# The ./helloworld helm chart is the default
# chart generated by 'helm create'
helm_resource(
  'helloworld',
  './helloworld',
  deps=['./helloworld'],
  image_deps=['helloworld-image'],
  image_keys=[('image.repository', 'image.tag')])
```

## Iterating on the YAML

`helm_resource` is great when you want to treat the chart as a "black box" where
you don't care what objects are inside.

But if you're developing your own chart, you may prefer Tilt's `helm` built-in.

Calling `helm()` runs `helm template` on a chart directory and returns a blob of
the Kubernetes YAML, which you can then deploy with `k8s_yaml`.

```python
k8s_yaml(helm('./charts/my-chart'))
```

When you make edits to the files in the chart directory, Tilt will automatically
re-deploy the chart.

## Why Does Tilt Have `helm()` and `helm_resource()`?

`helm()` lets you break the chart into the individual Kubernetes objects,
separate them out into resources, and deploy them independently. This gives you
more insight into the chart details. But because Tilt is installing the objects,
you lose a lot of Helm's built-in tools for controlling the install process.

`helm_resource()` keeps the chart together as one resource, then uses `helm
install` to deploy it. You get all the Helm features, but fewer of the Tilt
features for grouping the objects.

## The Future

We're still adding new features to the `helm_resource` extension! [Mark
Ingram](https://github.com/markdingram) just submitted an awesome change this
week.

For more on how to package up Kubernetes objects in development, see our guides on:

- [Modifying YAML for Dev](https://docs.tilt.dev/templating.html)

- [Installing YAML with Helm](https://docs.tilt.dev/helm.html)

The `helm_resource` extension builds on [the `k8s_custom_deploy`
API](https://blog.tilt.dev/2021/12/03/k8s-custom-deploy.html) that Milas wrote
about last month. 

The ecosystem of Kubernetes deploy tools has come a long way since we started
Tilt. Now there are frameworks like [Pulumi](https://www.pulumi.com/) and
[Brigade](https://brigade.sh/) for install scripts. 

This API should make it a lot easier to plug those kinds of scripts into your
dev environment! Stay tuned!




